['Mr. Phileas Fogg lived, in 1872, at No. 7, Saville Row, Burlington Gardens. He was one of the most noticeable members of the Reform Club. People said that he resembled Byron.',
 'Phileas Fogg was a member of the Reform, and that was all. He was recommended by the Barings, with whom he had an open credit. His cheques were regularly paid at sight from his account current.',
 'Phileas Fogg was the least communicative of men. He talked very little, and seemed all the more mysterious for his taciturn manner. His daily habits were quite open to observation. But whatever he did was so exactly the same thing that he had always done before.',
 'Phileas Fogg was not known to have either wife or children. He lived alone in his house in Saville Row, whither none penetrated. He breakfasted and dined at the club, at hours mathematically fixed.',
 'He passed ten hours out of the twenty-four in Saville Row, either in sleeping or making his toilet. When he chose to take a walk it was with a regular step in the entrance hall with its mosaic flooring, or in the circular gallery with its dome supported by twenty red porphyry Ionic columns.',
 'Phileas Fogg was awaiting his successor, who was due at the house between eleven and half-past. He had dismissed James Forster because that luckless youth had brought him shaving-water at eighty-four degrees Fahrenheit instead of eighty-six. At exactly half- Past 11 Mr. Fogg would quit Saville Row, and repair to the Reform.',
 'A young man of thirty advanced and bowed. "You are a Frenchman, I believe," asked Phileas Fogg, "and your name is John?" "Jean, if monsieur pleases," replied the newcomer, "Jean Passepartout, a surname which has clung to me"',
 '"Passepartout suits me," responded Mr. Fogg. "You are well recommended to me; I hear a good report of you. You know my conditions?" "Yes, monsieur." "Good! What time is it?" "Twenty-two minutes after eleven," returned Passepartout, drawing an enormous silver watch.',
 'Madame Tussaud\'s "people," let it be said, are of wax, and are much visited in London; speech is all that is wanting to make them human. Mr. Fogg seemed a perfect type of that English composure which Angelica Kauffmann has so skilfully represented on canvas.',
 'He was so exact that he was never in a hurry, was always ready, and was economical alike of his steps and his motions. He lived alone, and, so to speak, outside of every social relation; and as he knew that in this world account must be taken of friction, and that friction retards, he never rubbed against anybody.',
 'His eyes were blue, his complexion rubicund, his figure almost portly and well-built, his body muscular, and his physical powers fully developed by the exercises of his younger days. Passepartout had been a sort of vagrant in his early years, and now yearned for repose; but so far he had failed to find it.',
 "His last master, young Lord Longferry, Member of Parliament, was too often brought home in the morning on policemen's shoulders. Passepartout, desirous of respecting the gentleman whom he served, ventured a mild remonstrance on such conduct.",
 "Electric bells and speaking-tubes afforded communication with the lower stories. On the mantel stood an electric clock, precisely like that in Mr. Fogg's bedchamber. Everything was regulated and foreseen that was to be done.",
 'In short, the house in Saville Row, which must have been a very temple of disorder and unrest under the illustrious but dissipated Sheridan, was cosiness, comfort, and method idealised. There was no study, nor were there books, which would have been quite useless to Mr. Fogg; for at the Reform two libraries, one of general literature and the other of law and politics, were at his service. A moderate-sized safe stood in his bedroom, constructed',
 'He repaired at once to the dining-room, the nine windows of which open upon a tasteful garden, where the trees were already gilded with an autumn colouring. His breakfast consisted of a side-dish, a broiled fish with Reading sauce, a scarlet slice of roast beef garnished with mushrooms.',
 'Mr. Fogg\'s usual partners at whist were Andrew Stuart, an engineer, and Thomas Flanagan, a brewer. Stuart: "Oh," replied Stuart, "the Bank will lose the money." "On the contrary," broke in Ralph, "I hope we may put our hands on the robber"',
 '"The Daily Telegraph says that he is a gentleman." It was Phileas Fogg, whose head now emerged from behind his newspapers, who made this remark. The affair which formed its subject, and which was town talk, had occurred three days before at the Bank of England.',
 'The package of notes not being found when five o\'clock sounded from the ponderous clock in the "drawing office" was passed to the account of profit and loss. As soon as the robbery was discovered, picked detectives hastened off to Liverpool, Glasgow, Havre, Suez, Brindisi, New York, and other ports.',
 'The papers and clubs were full of the affair, and everywhere people were discussing the probabilities of a successful pursuit. Stuart and Flanagan played together, while Phileas Fogg had Fallentin for his partner. As the game proceeded the conversation ceased, excepting between the rubbers, when it revived again.',
 'The world has grown smaller, since a man can now go round it ten times more quickly than a hundred years ago. And that is why the search for this thief will be more likely to succeed. "Be so good as to play, Mr. Stuart," said Phileas Fogg.',
 '"Yes, in eighty days!" exclaimed Stuart, who in his excitement made a false deal. "But that doesn\'t take into account bad weather, contrary winds, shipwrecks, railway accidents, and so on." "All included," returned Phileas Fogg, continuing to play despite the discussion.',
 '"It\'s absurd!" cried Stuart, who was beginning to be annoyed at the persistency of his friend. "Calm yourself, my dear Stuart," said Fallentin. "It\'s only a joke." "When I say I\'ll wager," returned Stuart, "I mean it."',
 '"I will bet twenty thousand pounds against anyone who wishes that I will make the tour of the world in eighty days or less," said Phileas Fogg. "We accept," replied Messrs. Stuart, Fallentin, Sullivan, Flanagan, and Ralph. "Good," said Mr. Fogg, "The train leaves for Dover at a quarter before nine. I will take it."',
 'Here is a cheque for the amount." A memorandum of the wager was at once drawn up and signed by the six parties. Phileas Fogg preserved a stoical composure. "Diamonds are trumps: be so good as to play, gentlemen."',
 'Mr. Fogg repaired to his bedroom, and called out, "Passepartout!" Passepartout did not reply. It could not be he who was called; it was not the right hour. "We start for Dover and Calais in ten minutes"',
 'We\'ll buy our clothes on the way. Bring down my mackintosh and traveling-cloak, and some stout shoes, though we shall do little walking. Make haste!" Passepartout tried to reply, but could not.',
 "Mr. Fogg was quite ready. Under his arm might have been observed a red-bound copy of Bradshaw's Continental Railway Steam Transit and General Guide. He took the carpet-bag and slipped into it a goodly roll of Bank of England notes.",
 'Mr. Fogg took out the twenty guineas he had just won at whist, and handed them to the beggar, saying, "Here, my good woman. I\'m glad that I met you;" and passed on. Passepartout had a moist sensation about the eyes.',
 'Phileas Fogg bet Passepartout that he would turn off the gas in his room. The news of the bet spread through the Reform Club. From the club it soon got into the papers.',
 "The Times, Standard, Morning Post, and Daily News scouted Mr. Fogg's project as madness. The Daily Telegraph alone hesitatingly supported him. People in general thought him a lunatic.",
 'A few readers of the Daily Telegraph even dared to say, "Why not, after all? Stranger things have come to pass." At last a long article appeared, on the 7th of October, in the bulletin of the Royal Geographical Society, which demonstrated the utter folly of the enterprise. Everything, it said, was against the travellers, every obstacle imposed alike by man and by nature.',
 "A single delay would suffice to fatally break the chain of communication. Not only the members of the Reform, but the general public, made heavy wagers for or against Phileas Fogg. Bonds were issued, and made their appearance on 'Change'",
 'They were offered by packages, at first of five, then of ten, until at last nobody would take less than twenty, fifty, a hundred! Lord Albemarle, an elderly paralytic gentleman, was now the only advocate of Phileas Fogg left. The Fogg party dwindled more and more, everybody was going against him, and the bets stood a hundred and fifty and two hundred to one.',
 'Send with out delay warrant of arrest to Bombay. The polished gentleman disappeared to give place to the bank robber. His photograph, which was hung with those of the rest of the members at the Reform Club, was minutely examined. It betrayed, feature by feature, the description of the robber which had been provided to the police.',
 'The Mongolia plied regularly between Brindisi and Bombay via the Suez Canal. One of the fastest steamers belonging to the company, always making more than ten knots an hour.',
 'Detectives were dispatched from England in search of the bank robber. They were to watch every passenger who arrived at Suez, and follow up all who seemed to be suspicious. "So you say, consul, that this steamer is never behind time?"',
 '"I don\'t see how, from the description you have, you will be able to recognise your man, even if he is on board the Mongolia." "A man rather feels the presence of these fellows, consul, than recognises them. You must have a scent for them, and a scent is like a sixth sense which combines hearing, seeing, and smelling"',
 'Fellows who have rascally faces have only one course to take, and that is to remain honest; otherwise they would be arrested off-hand. The artistic thing is, to unmask honest countenances; it\'s no light task, I admit, but a real art."',
 '"How long will she stop at Suez?" "Four hours; long enough to get in her coal" "And does she go from Suez directly to Bombay?" "Without putting in anywhere" "Good!" said Fix. "If the robber is on board he will no doubt get off at S.uez, so as to reach the Dutch or French colonies in Asia by some other route" "Unless," objected the consul, "he is exceptionally shrewd"',
 "The Mongolia arrived on the quay at 11 o'clock. A dozen boats pushed off from the shore to meet the steamer. Fix took up a position, and carefully examined each face and figure.",
 '"Is this your passport?" asked he. "No, it\'s my master\'s." "And your master is—" "He stayed on board." "But he must go to the consul\'s in person, so as to establish his identity" "Oh, is that necessary?" "Quite indispensable" "And where is the consulate?" "There, on the corner of the square"',
 '"If he is as shrewd as I think he is, consul, he will come." "To have his passport visaed?" "Yes. Passports are only good for annoying honest folks, and aiding in the flight of rogues" "Still, I must keep this man here until I can get a warrant to arrest him from London"',
 '"You are Mr. Phileas Fogg?" said the consul, after reading the passport. "I am." "And this man is your servant?" "He is: a Frenchman, named Passepartout" "And you are going—" "To Bombay." "Very good, sir. You know that a visa is useless, and that no passport is required?"',
 'Mr. Fogg, after leaving the consulate, repaired to the quay, gave some orders to Passepartout, went off to the Mongolia in a boat. He took up his note-book, which contained the following memoranda.',
 'This methodical record thus contained an account of everything needed, and Mr. Fogg always knew whether he was behind-hand or in advance of his time. He sat down quietly to breakfast in his cabin, never once thinking of inspecting the town.',
 '"Just think, monsieur, I had no idea that we should go farther than Paris," said Passepartout. "I will show you an excellent shop for getting what you want," he said. "Above all," said he; "don\'t let me lose the steamer."',
 'It doesn\'t vary five minutes in the year. It\'s a perfect chronometer, look you." "You have kept London time, which is two hours behind that of Suez. You ought to regulate your watch at noon in each country." "I regulate my watch? Never!" "Well, then, it will not agree with the sun."',
 '"No doubt, for he is carrying an enormous sum in brand new banknotes with him. And he doesn\'t spare the money on the way, either: he has offered a large reward to the engineer of the Mongolia if he gets us to Bombay well in advance of time" The effect of these replies upon the already suspicious and excited detective may be imagined.',
 'asked Passepartout. "Pretty far. It is a ten days\' voyage by sea." "And in what country is Bombay?" "India." "In Asia?" "Certainly." "The deuce! I was going to tell you there\'s one thing that worries me—my burner!"',
 '"Then he\'s a sharp fellow," returned the consul, "and counts on returning to London after putting the police of the two countries off his track" "We\'ll see about that," replied Fix. "Send a dispatch to London for a warrant of arrest to be dispatched instantly to Bombay, follow my rogue to India, and there, on English ground, arrest him politely"',
 'The distance between Suez and Aden is precisely thirteen hundred and ten miles. The regulations of the company allow the steamers one hundred and thirty-eight hours in which to traverse it. The Mongolia, thanks to the vigorous exertions of the engineer, seemed likely to reach her destination considerably within that time.',
 'What with the military men, a number of rich young Englishmen on their travels, and the hospitable efforts of the purser, the time passed quickly on the Mongolia. But the Red Sea is full of caprice, and often boisterous, like most long and narrow gulfs.',
 'He passed through the memorable scenes of the Red Sea with cold indifference. He played whist indefatigably, for he had found partners as enthusiastic in the game as himself. He made his four hearty meals every day, regardless of the most persistent rolling and pitching on the steamer.',
 'Decimus Smith, returning to his parish at Bombay; and a brigadier-general of the English army, who was about to rejoin his brigade at Benares, made up the party, and, with Mr. Fogg, played whist by the hour together in absorbing silence. As for Passepartout, he, too, had escaped sea-sickness, and took his meals conscientiously in the forward cabin.',
 '"I am one of the agents of the Peninsular Company." "Then you know India?" "Why yes," replied Fix, who spoke cautiously. "Oh, very curious. Mosques, minarets, temples, fakirs, pagodas, tigers, snakes, elephants!"',
 '"Faith, Monsieur Fix, I assure you I know nothing about it, nor would I give half a crown to find out." Passepartout and Fix got into the habit of chatting together, the latter making it a point to gain the worthy man\'s confidence.',
 'The Mongolia had still sixteen hundred and fifty miles to traverse before reaching Bombay, and was obliged to remain four hours at Steamer Point to coal up. Phileas Fogg and his servant went ashore at Aden to have the passport again visaed.',
 '"Very curious, very curious," said Passepartout to himself, on returning to the steamer. At six p.m. the Mongolia slowly moved out of the roadstead, and was soon once more on the Indian Ocean. She had a hundred and sixty-eight hours in which to reach Bombay.',
 'Phileas Fogg was in the act of finishing the thirty-third rubber of the voyage. The Mongolia was due at Bombay on the 22nd; she arrived on the 20th. Fogg calmly entered the fact in the itinerary, in the column of gains.',
 'A considerable portion of India is still free from British authority. Certain ferocious rajahs in the interior are absolutely independent. The aspect of the country, as well as the manners and distinctions of race, is daily changing.',
 'This railway does not run in a direct line across India. The distance between Bombay and Calcutta, as the bird flies, is only from one thousand to eleven hundred miles. But the deflections of the road increase this distance by more than a third.',
 'As for the wonders of Bombay, Phileas Fogg cared not a straw to see them. He would not deign to examine even the masterpieces of Elephanta or the mysterious hypogea.',
 '"Mew, my lord! What, a rabbit mew! I swear to you—" "Be so good, landlord, as not to swear, but remember this: cats were formerly considered, in India, as sacred animals. That was a good time." "For the cats, myLord?" "Perhaps for the travellers as well!"',
 "He did not doubt for a moment, any more than Phileas Fogg would remain there, at least until it was time for the warrant to arrive. Passepartout, however, had no sooner heard his master's orders on leaving the Mongolia than he saw at once that they were to leave Bombay as they had done Suez and Paris.",
 'It is needless to say that Passepartout watched these curious ceremonies with staring eyes and gaping mouth. His countenance was that of the greenest booby imaginable. Unhappily for his master, as well as himself, his curiosity drew him unconsciously farther off than he intended to go.',
 'Passepartout, hatless, shoeless, and having in the squabble lost his package of shirts and shoes, rushed breathlessly into the station. Fix, who had followed Mr. Fogg to the station, and saw that he was really going to leave Bombay, was there. He had resolved to follow the supposed robber to Calcutta, and farther, if necessary.',
 'Poor Passepartout followed his master without a word. Fix was on the point of entering another carriage, when an idea struck him which induced him to alter his plan. "No, I\'ll stay," muttered he. "An offence has been committed on Indian soil. I\'ve got my man"',
 'Phileas Fogg was not travelling, but only describing a circumference. Sir Francis Cromarty had observed the oddity of his travelling companion. The only opportunity he had for studying him had been while he was dealing the cards.',
 'In the way this strange gentleman was going on, he would leave the world without having done any good to himself or anybody else. An hour after leaving Bombay the train had passed the viaducts and the Island of Salcette, and had got into the open country.',
 '"I have constantly foreseen the likelihood of certain obstacles." "But, Mr. Fogg," pursued Sir Francis, "you run the risk of having some difficulty about this worthy fellow\'s adventure at the pagoda." Passepartout was sound asleep and did not dream that anybody was talking about him.',
 'Passepartout, on waking and looking out, could not realise that he was actually crossing India in a railway train. The travellers crossed, beyond Milligaum, the fatal country so often stained with blood by the sectaries of the goddess Kali.',
 'It was thereabouts that Feringhea, the Thuggee chief, king of the stranglers, held his sway. These ruffians, united by a secret bond, strangled victims of every age in honour of the goddess Death, without ever shedding blood.',
 "His old vagabond nature returned to him; the fantastic ideas of his youth once more took possession of him. He came to regard his master's project as intended in good earnest, believed in the reality of the bet, and therefore in the tour of the world.",
 'The next day Sir Francis Cromarty asked Passepartout what time it was; to which, on consulting his watch, he replied that it was three in the morning. This famous timepiece, always regulated on the Greenwich meridian, which was now some seventy-seven degrees westward, was at least four hours slow.',
 'Passepartout, not less surprised, rushed out and speedily returned, crying: "Monsieur, no more railway!" The general at once stepped out, while Phileas Fogg calmly followed him, and they proceeded together to the conductor.',
 '"Mr. Fogg, this is a delay greatly to your disadvantage." "No, Sir Francis; it was foreseen." "What! You knew that the way—" "Not at all; but I knew that some obstacle or other would sooner or later arise"',
 'Mr. Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty, after searching the village from end to end, came back without having found anything. Passepartout, who had now rejoined his master, made a wry grimace, as he thought of his magnificent, but too frail Indian shoes.',
 'Kiouni, the name of the beast, could doubtless travel rapidly for a long time, and, in default of any other means of conveyance, Mr. Fogg resolved to hire him. But elephants are far from cheap in India, where they are becoming scarce, and the males are much sought.',
 'The Indian, perhaps thinking he was going to make a great bargain, still refused. Sir Francis Cromarty took Mr. Fogg aside, and begged him to reflect before he went any further. At two thousand pounds the Indian yielded. "What a price, good heavens!" cried Passepartout, "for an elephant"',
 'The elephant was led out and equipped. The Parsee, who was an accomplished elephant driver, covered his back with a sort of saddle-cloth. Phileas Fogg paid the Indian with some banknotes which he extracted from a carpet-bag.',
 'This line, owing to the capricious turnings of the Vindhia Mountains, did not pursue a straight course. The Parsee, who was quite familiar with the roads and paths in the district, declared that they would gain twenty miles by striking directly through the forest. Phileas Fogg and Sir Francis Cromarty were plunged to the neck in the peculiar howdahs provided for them.',
 'After two hours the guide stopped the elephant, and gave him an hour for rest. Kiouni, after quenching his thirst at a neighbouring spring, set to devouring the branches and shrubs round about him. At noon the Parsee gave the signal of departure.',
 'The travellers several times saw bands of ferocious Indians, who, when they perceived the elephant striding across-country, made angry and threatening motions. Few animals were observed on the route; even the monkeys hurried from their path with contortions and grimaces.',
 'The night was cold. The Parsee lit a fire in the bungalow with a few dry branches, and the warmth was very grateful. Sir Francis slept heavily, like an honest soldier overcome with fatigue. Passepartout was wrapped in uneasy dreams of the bouncing of the day before.',
 'Kiouni, resuming his rapid gait, soon descended the lower spurs of the Vindhias. They passed by the village of Kallenger, on the Cani, one of the branches of the Ganges. Allahabad was now only twelve miles to the north-east. They stopped under a clump of bananas, as healthy as bread and as succulent as cream.',
 'The murmur soon became more distinct; it now seemed like a distant concert of human voices accompanied by brass instruments. Mr. Fogg patiently waited without a word. The Parsee jumped to the ground, fastened the elephant to a tree, and plunged into the thicket.',
 'First came the priests, with mitres on their heads, and clothed in long lace robes. They were surrounded by men, women, and children, who sang a kind of lugubrious psalm. While behind them was drawn a car with large wheels, the spokes of which represented serpents entwined with each other. Upon the car, which was drawn by four richly caparisoned zebus, stood a hideous statue with four arms.',
 'Some Brahmins, clad in all the sumptuousness of Oriental apparel, and leading a woman who faltered at every step, followed. This woman was young, and as fair as a European. Her head and neck, shoulders, ears, arms, hands, and toes were loaded down with jewels and gems.',
 'The Parsee nodded, and put his finger to his lips. The procession slowly wound under the trees, and soon its last ranks disappeared in the depths of the wood. Phileas Fogg had heard what Sir Francis said, and, as soon as the procession had disappeared, asked: "What is a suttee?"',
 'The whole district north of the Vindhias is the theatre of incessant murders and pillage. The prospect of so frightful an existence drives these poor creatures to the sacrifice much more than love or religious fanaticism.',
 '"The sacrifice which will take place to-morrow at dawn is not a voluntary one," says the guide. "But the wretched creature did not seem to be making any resistance," observed Sir Francis Cromarty. "That was because they had intoxicated her with fumes of hemp and opium," said Mr. Fogg. The guide now led the elephant out of the thicket, and leaped upon his neck.',
 'Mr. Fogg was going to risk life, or at least liberty, and therefore the success of his tour. He found in Sir Francis Cromarty an enthusiastic ally. Passepartout was ready for anything that might be proposed.',
 '"I think so," said the guide. The worthy Indian then gave some account of the victim, who, he said, was a celebrated beauty of the Parsee race. Her name was Aouda.',
 'They then discussed the means of getting at the victim. The guide was familiar with the pagoda of Pillaji, in which, as he declared, the young woman was imprisoned. Could they enter any of its doors while the whole party of Indians was plunged in a drunken sleep? This could only be determined at the moment and the place themselves.',
 "The pagoda, whose minarets loomed above the trees in the deepening dusk, stood a hundred steps away. Much to the guide's disappointment, the guards of the rajah, lighted by torches, were watching at the doors and marching to and fro with naked sabres.",
 'They stopped, and engaged in a whispered colloquy. They waited till midnight; but no change took place among the guards. It became apparent that their yielding to sleep could not be counted on. The other plan must be carried out; an opening in the walls of the pagoda must be made.',
 'The night was dark. The moon, on the wane, scarcely left the horizon, and was covered with heavy clouds. It was not enough to reach the walls; an opening in them must be accomplished. Happily the temple walls were built of brick and wood.',
 'But, awkwardly enough, the guards now appeared at the rear of the temple, and there installed themselves, in readiness to prevent a surprise. It would be difficult to describe the disappointment of the party, thus interrupted in their work. They could not now reach the victim; how, then, could they save her?',
 'This would be utter folly, and it was hard to admit that Fogg was such a fool. Sir Francis consented, however, to remain to the end of this terrible drama. The hours passed, and the lighter shades now announced the approach of day. This was the moment. The slumbering multitude became animated, the tambourines sounded, songs and cries arose; the hour of the sacrifice had come.',
 "The young woman had again fallen into a stupor caused by the fumes of hemp. She passed among the fakirs, who escorted her with their wild, religious cries. Sir Francis's heart throbbed; and, convulsively seizing Mr. Fogg's hand, found in it an open knife.",
 'The whole multitude prostrated themselves, terror-stricken, on the ground. The old rajah was not dead, then, since he rose of a sudden, like a spectre, took up his wife in his arms, and descended from the pyre in the midst of the clouds of smoke.',
 "A moment after all four of the party had disappeared in the woods, and the elephant was bearing them away at a rapid pace. But the cries and noise, and a ball which whizzed through Phileas Fogg's hat, apprised them that the trick had been discovered. The old rajah's body, indeed, now appeared upon the burning pyre.",
 "The elephant, thanks to the skilful guidance of the Parsee, was advancing rapidly through the still darksome forest. They made a halt at seven o'clock, the young woman being still in a state of complete prostration. The guide made her drink a little brandy and water, but the drowsiness which stupefied her could not yet be shaken off.",
 'These fanatics were scattered throughout the county, and would, despite the English police, recover their victim at Madras, Bombay, or Calcutta. She would only be safe by quitting India for ever. Phileas Fogg replied that he would reflect upon the matter.',
 "The Ganges, according to the legends of the Ramayana, rises in heaven, whence, owing to Brahma's agency, it descends to the earth. The influence to which the priests of Pillaji had subjected Aouda began gradually to yield.",
 "Her ebony brows have the form and charm of the bow of Kama, the god of love, and beneath her long silken lashes the purest reflections. Her teeth, fine, equal, and white, glitter between her smiling lips like dewdrops in a passion-flower's half-enveloped breast. Her delicately formed ears, her vermilion hands, her little feet, glitter with the brilliancy of the loveliest pearls of",
 'Mr. Fogg proceeded to pay the guide the price agreed upon for his service, and not a farthing more. What should be done with the elephant, which had been so dearly purchased? Phileas Fogg had already determined this.',
 '"Good!" exclaimed Passepartout. "Take him, friend. Kiouni is a brave and faithful beast." And, going up to the elephant, he gave him several lumps of sugar. The elephant grunted out his satisfaction, and lifted him as high as his head.',
 'Mr. Fogg said nothing; while Passepartout, abashed, kept repeating that "it wasn\'t worth telling" Aouda pathetically thanked her deliverers, rather with tears than words.',
 "Benares was Sir Francis Cromarty's destination, the troops he was rejoining being encamped some miles northward of the city. The railway, on leaving Benares, passed for a while along the valley of the Ganges. Through the windows of their carriage the travellers had glimpses of the diversified landscape of Behar.",
 'These were fervent Brahmins, the bitterest foes of Buddhism. Their deities were Vishnu, the solar god, Shiva, the divine impersonation of natural forces, and Brahma, the supreme ruler of priests and legislators.',
 'Night came on; the train passed on at full speed, in the midst of the roaring of the tigers, bears, and wolves which fled before the locomotive. Calcutta was reached at seven in the morning, and the packet left for Hong Kong at noon; so that Phileas Fogg had five hours before him.',
 'Phileas Fogg intended to proceed at once to the Hong Kong steamer, in order to get Aouda comfortably settled for the voyage. He was unwilling to leave her while they were still on dangerous ground.',
 'The carriage stopped before a modest-looking house, which, however, did not have the appearance of a private mansion. Aouda, with an emotion she tried to conceal, said to Mr. Fogg: "Sir, you must leave me to my fate!"',
 'At half-past eight the door opened, the policeman appeared, and, requesting them to follow him, led the way to an adjoining hall. It was evidently a court-room, and a crowd of Europeans and natives already occupied the rear of the apartment. The wigs were exchanged.',
 '"The first case," repeated Judge Obadiah. "Phileas Fogg?" demanded Oysterpuff. "I am here," replied Mr. Fogg. "Passepartout?" "Present," responded Passepartout. "Good," said the judge. "You have been looked for, prisoners, for two days on the trains from Bombay."',
 '"I wish to hear these priests admit, in their turn, what they were going to do at the pagoda of Pillaji." The priests looked at each other; they did not seem to understand what was said. "Bombay?" cried Passepartout. "Certainly. We are not talking of the pagodas in Bombay, but of the Pagoda of Malabar Hill"',
 'Fix and the priests reached the Indian capital before Mr. Fogg and his servant. The magistrates had been warned by a dispatch to arrest them should they arrive.',
 'Judge Obadiah had unfortunately caught Passepartout\'s rash exclamation, which the poor fellow would have given the world to recall. "The facts are admitted?" asked the judge. "Admitted," replied Mr. Fogg, coldly. "Inasmuch," resumed the judge, "as the English law protects equally and sternly the religions of the Indian people"',
 'Passepartout was stupefied. This sentence ruined his master. A wager of twenty thousand pounds lost, because he, like a precious fool, had gone into that abominable pagoda! Phileas Fogg did not even lift his eyebrows while it was being pronounced.',
 '"More than a thousand pounds apiece; besides, they pinch my feet." Mr. Fogg, offering his arm to Aouda, then departed, followed by the crestfallen Passepartout. Fix still nourished hopes that the robber would not, after all, leave the two thousand pounds behind him, but would decide to serve out his week in jail.',
 'The Rangoon was a screw steamer, built of iron, weighing about seventeen hundred and seventy tons. She was as fast, but not as well fitted up, as the Mongolia. Aouda was not as comfortably provided for on board of her as Phileas Fogg could have wished.',
 "He visited her regularly each day at certain hours, not so much to talk himself, as to sit and hear her talk. After all, she owed Phileas Fogg her life, and she always regarded him through the exalting medium of her gratitude. Aouda confirmed the Parsee guide's narrative of her touching history.",
 'Aouda fastened her great eyes, "clear as the sacred lakes of the Himalaya," upon him. The intractable Fogg, as reserved as ever, did not seem at all inclined to throw himself into this lake. The panorama of the islands, as they steamed by them, was superb.',
 "The Rangoon rapidly approached the Straits of Malacca, which gave access to the China seas. All the detective's hopes and wishes were now centred on Hong Kong. The arrest must be made at Hong Kong, or the robber would probably escape him.",
 'If the warrant should at last make its appearance at Hong Kong, Fix could arrest him and give him into the hands of the local police, and there would be no further trouble. But beyond Hong Kong a simple warrant would be of no avail; an extradition Warrant would be necessary, and that would result in delays and obstacles. Fix thought over these probabilities during the long hours which he spent in his cabin.',
 "The presence of Aouda on the Rangoon gave him new material for reflection. Who was this woman? What combination of events had made her Fogg's travelling companion? They had evidently met somewhere between Bombay and Calcutta. Had they met accidentally, or had Fogg gone into the interior purposely in quest of this charming damsel? Fix was fairly puzzled. He asked himself whether there had not been a wicked elopement.",
 'Fix decided that he must warn the English authorities, and signal the Rangoon before her arrival. He finally resolved, moreover, before acting more positively, to question Passepartout. It would not be difficult to make him talk.',
 '"Why, I left you at Bombay, and here you are, on the way to Hong Kong! Are you going round the world too?" "No, no," replied Fix; "I shall stop at Hong Kong—at least for some days." "Hum!" said Passepartout, who seemed for an instant perplexed. "But how is it I have not seen you on board since we left Calcutta?" "Oh, a trifle of sea-s',
 '"But does your master propose to carry this young woman to Europe?" "Not at all. We are simply going to place her under the protection of one of her relatives, a rich merchant at Hong Kong." "Nothing to be done there," said Fix to himself. "A glass of gin, Mr. Passepartout?" "Willingly, Monsieur Fix. We must at least have a friendly glass on board the Rangoon."',
 "Passepartout was ready to wager his Indian shoes, which he religiously preserved, that Fix would also leave Hong Kong at the same time with them, and probably on the same steamer. Fix, he thought, could only be an agent of Mr. Fogg's friends at the Reform Club, sent to follow him up.",
 'Passepartout, enchanted with his discovery, resolved to say nothing to his master, lest he should be justly offended at this mistrust on the part of his adversaries. But he determined to chaff Fix, when he had the chance, with mysterious allusions.',
 'The island of Singapore is not imposing in aspect, for there are no mountains. It is a park checkered by pleasant highways and avenues. Pepper plants replaced the prickly hedges of European fields.',
 'Passepartout, who had been purchasing several dozen mangoes, was waiting for them on deck. Singapore is distant some thirteen hundred miles from the island of Hong Kong. Phileas Fogg hoped to accomplish the journey in six days, so as to be in time for the steamer which would leave on the 6th of November.',
 'The weather, which had hitherto been fine, changed with the last quarter of the moon. The sea rolled heavily, and the wind at intervals rose almost to a storm. The captain as often as possible put up his sails. Under the double action of steam and sail the vessel made rapid progress.',
 '"A very great hurry!" "Mr. Fogg, I suppose, is anxious to catch the steamer for Yokohama?" "Terribly anxious." "You believe in this journey around the world, then?" "Absolutely. Don\'t you, Mr. Fix?" "I? I don\'t believe a word of it."',
 'Fix looked intently at his companion, whose countenance was as serene as possible. But Passepartout persisted in chaffing him by asking him if he made much by his present occupation. "Yes, and no," returned Fix; "there is good and bad luck in such things"',
 "Phileas Fogg moved about above them in the most majestic and unconscious indifference. Yet there was near by what the astronomers would call a disturbing star. But no! the charms of Aouda failed to act, to Passepartout's great surprise.",
 'As to the sentiment which this journey might have awakened in him, there was clearly no trace of such a thing; while poor Passepartout existed in perpetual reveries. One day he was leaning on the railing of the engine-room, and was observing the engine, when a sudden pitch of the steamer threw the screw out of the water.',
 'The Rangoon reefed all her sails, and even the rigging proved too much, whistling and shaking amid the squall. The captain estimated that she would reach Hong Kong twenty hours behind time, and more if the storm lasted. Phileas Fogg gazed at the tempestuous sea, which seemed to be struggling especially to delay him, with his habitual tranquillity.',
 'Passepartout was enraged beyond expression by the unpropitious weather. The storm exasperated him, the gale made him furious. He longed to lash the obstinate sea into obedience.',
 "He wanted to know exactly how long the storm was going to last; whereupon he was referred to the barometer, which seemed to have no intention of rising. On the 4th, however, the sea became more calm, and the storm lessened its violence. Land was not signalled until five o'clock on the morning of the 6th; the steamer was due on the 5th.",
 'Mr. Fogg asked the pilot when a steamer would leave Hong Kong for Yokohama. "At high tide to-morrow morning," answered the pilot. "Ah!" said Mr.Fogg, without betraying any astonishment.',
 'He remounted the bridge, and guided the steamer through the flotilla of junks, tankas, and fishing boats which crowd the harbour of Hong Kong. Mr. Fogg was, it is true, twenty-four hours behind his time; but this could not seriously imperil the remainder of his tour.',
 'The Carnatic was announced to leave Hong Kong at five the next morning. Mr. Fogg had sixteen hours in which to attend to his business there, which was to deposit Aouda safely with her wealthy relative. On landing, he conducted her to a palanquin, and they repaired to the Club Hotel.',
 'Aouda at first said nothing. She passed her hand across her forehead, and reflected a few moments. Then, in her sweet, soft voice, she said: "What ought I to do, Mr. Fogg?" "It is very simple," responded the gentleman. "Go on to Europe."',
 'Hong Kong has beaten Macao in the struggle for the Chinese trade. Now the greater part of the transportation of Chinese goods finds its depot at the former place. Docks, hospitals, wharves, a Gothic cathedral, a government house.',
 "On going into a barber's to get shaved he learned that these ancient men were all at least eighty years old, at which age they are permitted to wear yellow, which is the Imperial colour. Passepartout, without exactly knowing why, thought this very funny.",
 '"Yes," returned Fix, through his set teeth. "Good!" exclaimed Passepartout, laughing heartily. "I knew you could not persuade yourself to separate from us." They entered the steamer office and secured cabins for four persons.',
 'The Chinese government has in vain attempted to deal with the evil by stringent laws. Opium is smoked everywhere, at all times, by men and women. The victims cannot dispense with it, except by suffering horrible bodily contortions and agonies.',
 "Passepartout had no money, but willingly accepted Fix's invitation. They ordered two bottles of port, to which the Frenchman did ample justice. When the bottles were empty, however, he rose to tell his master of the change in the time of the sailing of the Carnatic.",
 'He resumed his seat. "What is it that you have to say?" Fix placed his hand upon Passepartout\'s arm, and, lowering his voice, said, "You have guessed who I am?" "Parbleu!" said Passe partout, smiling. "Then I\'m going to tell you everything—" "Now that I know everything, my friend!" said Fix.',
 '"Yes; help me keep Mr. Fogg here for two or three days." "Why, what are you saying? Those gentlemen are not satisfied with following my master and suspecting his honour, but they must try to put obstacles in his way! I blush for them!"',
 'Fogg." "He knows nothing, then?" "Nothing," replied Passepartout, again emptying his glass. The detective passed his hand across his forehead, hesitating before he spoke again. "I am not, as you think, an agent of the members of the Reform Club," said Fix abruptly. "Bah!" retorted Passe Partout, with an air of raillery. "Here is my commission."',
 'He had a motive for securing your innocent complicity." "But why?" "Listen. On the 28th of last September a robbery of fifty-five thousand pounds was committed at the Bank of England by a person whose description was fortunately secured"',
 'Passepartout essayed to reject the suspicions which forced themselves upon his mind; he did not wish to believe that his master was guilty. "Well, what do you want of me?" said he, at last, with an effort. "I have tracked Mr. Fogg to this place, but as yet I have failed to receive the warrant of arrest for which I sent to London," replied Fix.',
 'Fix, seeing that he must, at all hazards, be separated from his master, wished to entirely overcome him. Some pipes full of opium lay upon the table. Fix slipped one into Passepartout\'s hand. He took it, put it between his lips, lit it, drew several puffs, and his head, becoming heavy under the influence of the narcotic, fell upon thetable. "At last!" said Fix, seeing Passe Partout unconscious.',
 "He acquitted his task with characteristic serenity, and invariably replied to the remonstrances of his fair companion. The purchases made, they returned to the hotel, where they dined at a sumptuously served table-d'hote. Aouda, shaking hands with her protector after the English fashion, retired to her room for rest.",
 'Mr. Fogg and Aouda got into the palanquin, their luggage being brought after on a wheelbarrow, and half an hour later stepped upon the quay whence they were to embark. He had expected to find not only the steamer, but his domestic, and was forced to give up both. At this moment a man who had been observing him attentively approached.',
 'answered the detective. "So did I, madam, and I am excessively disappointed. The Carnatic, its repairs being completed, left Hong Kong twelve hours before the stated time, without any notice being given"',
 'Fix began to hope again. Mr. Fogg, far from being discouraged, was continuing his search, resolved not to stop if he had to resort to Macao. He was accosted by a sailor on one of the wharves. The sailor leaned on the railing, opened his eyes wide, and said, "Is your honour joking?"',
 'Mr. Fogg turned to Aouda and asked her, "You would not be afraid, would you, madam?" "Not with you, Mr Fogg," was her answer. The pilot now returned, shuffling his hat in his hands.',
 '"Why not?" returned the pilot. "The San Francisco steamer does not start from Yokohama." "You are sure of that?" "Perfectly." "And when does the boat leave Shanghai?" "On the 11th, at seven in the evening" "We have, therefore, four days before us, that is ninety-six hours"',
 '"I shall do all I can to find him," replied Phileas Fogg. While Fix, in a feverish, nervous state, repaired to the pilot-boat, the others directed their course to the police-station at Hong Kong.',
 'The crew of the Tankadere was composed of John Bunsby, the master, and four hardy mariners, who were familiar with the Chinese seas. Phileas Fogg and Aouda went on board, where they found Fix already installed.',
 'Fix was not without his fears lest chance should direct the steps of the unfortunate servant, whom he had so badly treated, in this direction. But the Frenchman did not appear, and, without doubt, was still lying under the stupefying influence of the opium. The Chinese seas are usually boisterous, subject to terrible gales of wind, and especially during the equinoxes; and it was now early November.',
 'But John Bunsby believed in the Tankadere, which rode on the waves like a seagull. Late in the day they passed through the capricious channels of Hong Kong. "I do not need, pilot," said Phileas Fogg, when they got into the open sea.',
 'Night came. The moon was entering her first quarter, and her insufficient light would soon die out in the mist on the horizon. Clouds were rising from the east, and already overcast a part of the heavens. The pilot had hung out his lights, which was very necessary in these seas crowded with vessels bound landward.',
 'Phileas Fogg was also thinking of Passepartout, who had so strangely disappeared. It did not seem to him impossible that, by some mistake, the man might have embarked on the Carnatic at the last moment. They might then find him at Yokohama.',
 'The Tankadere bore sail admirably, as she drew a great deal of water, and everything was prepared for high speed in case of a gale. At sunrise the next day, which was 8th November, the boat had made more than one hundred miles. The log indicated a mean speed of between eight and nine miles.',
 'The pilot put up his poles, but took them down again within two hours. Mr. Fogg and Aouda, happily unaffected by the roughness of the sea, ate with a good appetite. Fix was invited to share their repast, which he accepted with secret chagrin.',
 'The Tankadere entered the Straits of Fo-Kien, which separate the island of Formosa from the Chinese coast, in the small hours of the night, and crossed the Tropic of Cancer. By evening, the log showed that two hundred and twenty miles had been accomplished from Hong Kong.',
 'At daybreak the wind began to blow hard again, and the heavens seemed to predict a gale. John Bunsby long examined the threatening aspect of the heavens, muttering indistinctly between his teeth. He said in a low voice to Mr. Fogg, "Shall I speak out to your honour?"',
 'The pilot reefed all sail, the pole-masts were dispensed with; all hands went forward to the bows. A single triangular sail, of strong canvas, was hoisted as a storm-jib. The Tankadere was lifted like a feather by a wind, an idea of whose violence can scarcely be given.',
 'The passengers were often bathed in spray, but they submitted to it philosophically. Fix cursed it, no doubt; but Aouda, with her eyes fastened upon her protector, whose coolness amazed her, showed herself worthy of him, and bravely weathered the storm.',
 '"And that is—" "Shanghai." The pilot, at first, did not seem to comprehend. Then he cried, "Well—yes! Your honour is right. To Shanghai!" So the Tankadere kept steadily on her northward track.',
 'The tempest had been as brief as terrific. The passengers, thoroughly exhausted, could now eat a little, and take some repose. The night was comparatively quiet. The next morning at dawn they espied the coast, and John Bunsby was able to assert that they were not one hundred miles from Shanghai. A hundred miles, and only one day to traverse them!',
 "The Tankadere was so light, and her fine sails caught the fickle zephyrs so well, that, with the aid of the currents John Bunsby found himself at six o'clock not more than ten miles from the mouth of Shanghai River. Shanghai itself is situated at least twelve miles up the stream. At seven they were still three miles from Shanghai.",
 'It was loaded to the muzzle; but just as the pilot was about to apply a red-hot coal to the touchhole, Mr. Fogg said, "Hoist your flag!" The flag was run up at half-mast, and it was hoped that the American steamer, perceiving it, would change her course a little.',
 'Three hours later, pursued even in his dreams by a fixed idea, the poor fellow awoke, and struggled against the stupefying influence of the narcotic. The next morning he found himself the next morning on the deck of the Carnatic, and eagerly inhaling the exhilarating sea-breeze.',
 'He began to collect his sense, which he found a difficult task. Then he recalled the events of the evening before, Fix\'s revelation, and the opium-house. "It is evident," said he to himself, "that I have been abominably drunk!"',
 'Passepartout got up and proceeded, as well as he could with the rolling of the steamer, to the after-deck. He saw no one who resembled either his master or Aouda. "Good!" muttered he; "Mr. Fogg has probably found some partners at whist"',
 'He fell thunderstruck on a seat. He saw it all now. He remembered that the time of sailing had been changed, that he should have informed his master of that fact, and that he had not done so. It was his fault, then, that Mr. Fogg and Aouda had missed the steamer. Yes, but it was still more the fault of the traitor who, in order to separate him from his master, and detain the latter at Hong Kong',
 'He fell to at meals with an appetite, and ate for Mr. Fogg, Aouda, and himself. He helped himself as generously as if Japan were a desert. He had nothing better to do than, taking chance for his guide, to wander aimlessly through the streets of Yokohama.',
 'This quarter occupied, with its streets, squares, docks, and warehouses, all the space between the "promontory of the Treaty" and the river. Here, as at Hong Kong and Calcutta, were mixed crowds of all races, Americans and English. The Frenchman felt himself as much alone among them as if he had dropped down in the midst of Hottentots.',
 'The streets were crowded with people. Priests were passing in processions, beating their dreary tambourines. The military profession is as much respected in Japan as it is despised in China.',
 'Passepartout wandered for several hours in the midst of this motley crowd, looking in at the windows of the rich and curious shops. There he saw dazzling camellias expanding themselves, with flowers which were giving forth their last colours and perfumes.',
 'Passepartout had taken good care to eat as hearty a breakfast as possible before leaving the Carnatic. He observed that the butchers stalls contained neither mutton, goat, nor pork. He made up his mind that meat was far from plentiful in Yokohama.',
 'Passepartout thought he would sell his watch, but he would have starved first. The streets at last became quiet, and the patrol, in their splendid costumes, and surrounded by their suites, seemed like ambassadors.',
 'Passepartout decided to wait several hours for the Mikado to arrive. He then decided to change his clothes for clothes more in harmony with his project. He found a native dealer in old clothes, to whom he applied for an exchange.',
 '"I mustn\'t lose my head. I can\'t sell this costume again for one still more Japanese" The difficulty was, how to traverse the four thousand seven hundred miles of the Pacific which lay between Japan and the New World.',
 "Passepartout followed the clown, and soon found himself once more in the Japanese quarter. A quarter of an hour later he stopped before a large cabin, adorned with several clusters of streamers. The exterior walls of the cabin were designed to represent, in violent colours and without perspective, a company of jugglers. This was the Honourable William Batulcar's establishment.",
 '"Would you like a servant, sir?" asked Passepartout. "A servant!" cried Mr. Batulcar. "I already have two who are obedient and faithful, have never left me, and serve me for their nourishment"',
 'Passepartout was engaged to act in the celebrated Japanese troupe. He was not a very dignified position, but within a week he would be on his way to San Francisco.',
 "Before three o'clock the large shed was invaded by the spectators, comprising Europeans and natives, Chinese and Japanese, men, women and children. The musicians took up a position inside, and were vigorously performing on their gongs, tam-tams, flutes, bones, tambourines, and immense drums. The performance was much like all acrobatic displays; but it must be confessed that the Japanese are the first equilibrists in the world.",
 'The Long Noses form a peculiar company, under the direct patronage of the god Tingou. Attired after the fashion of the Middle Ages, they bore upon their shoulders a splendid pair of wings. What especially distinguished them was the long noses which were fastened to their faces.',
 'A dozen of these sectaries of Tingou lay flat upon their backs, while others, dressed to represent lightning-rods, came and frolicked on their noses. As a last scene, a "human pyramid" had been announced, in which fifty Long Noses were to represent the Car of Juggernaut. Instead of forming a pyramid by mounting each other\'s shoulders, the artists were to group themselves on top of the noses.',
 'They all stretched themselves on the floor, their noses pointing to the ceiling. A second group of artists disposed themselves on these long appendages. This elicited loud applause, in the midst of which the orchestra was just striking up a deafening air.',
 'He demanded damages for the "breakage" of the pyramid. Phileas Fogg appeased him by giving him a handful of banknotes. They reached their destination on the morning of the 14th of November.',
 "The San Francisco steamer was announced to leave that very evening, and it became necessary to find Passepartout, if possible, without delay. Mr. Fogg applied in vain to the French and English consuls, and, after wandering through the streets, began to despair of finding his missing servant. Chance, or perhaps a kind of presentiment, at last led him into the Honourable Mr. Batulcar's theatre.",
 'Mr. Fogg heard this narrative coldly, without a word; and then furnished his man with funds necessary to obtain clothing more in harmony with his position. Within an hour the Frenchman had cut off his nose and parted with his wings, and retained nothing about him which recalled the sectary of the god Tingou.',
 'There was a full complement of passengers on board, among them English, many Americans, a large number of coolies on their way to California, and several East Indian officers. Nothing of moment happened on the voyage; the steamer, sustained on its large paddles, rolled but little.',
 "Fogg took pains to calm Aouda's doubts of a successful termination of the journey. A railway train from San Francisco to New York, and a transatlantic steamer from New York to Liverpool would doubtless bring them to the end of this impossible journey.",
 "Passepartout made a joyful discovery on the 23rd of November. He found that his watch exactly agreed with the ship's chronometers. He would have liked to know what Fix would say if he were aboard!",
 'Passepartout was ignorant that, if the face of his watch had been divided into twenty-four hours, like the Italian clocks, he would have no reason for exultation. If Fix had been able to explain this purely physical effect, Passepart out would not have admitted, even if he had comprehended it.',
 'It had followed him from Bombay, and had come by the Carnatic, on which steamer he himself was supposed to be. Mr. Fogg had left English ground, and it was now necessary to procure his extradition.',
 'On that very day, however, he met Passepartout face to face on the forward deck. The latter, without a word, made a rush for him, grasped him by the throat, and administered to the detective a perfect volley of blows, which proved the great superiority of French over English pugilistic skill.',
 "Sh! don't budge, and let me speak. As long as Mr. Fogg was on English ground, it was for my interest to detain him there until my warrant of arrest arrived. I did everything I could to keep him back. I sent the Bombay priests after him, I got you intoxicated at Hong Kong, I separated you from him, and I made him miss the Yokohama steamer. Your interest is the same as mine; for it is only in",
 '"Agreed," said the detective quietly. Eleven days later, the General Grant entered the bay of the Golden Gate, and reached San Francisco. Mr. Fogg had neither gained nor lost a single day.',
 "Mr. Fogg, on reaching shore, proceeded to find out at what hour the first train left for New York, and learned that this was at six o'clock p.m. He had, therefore, an entire day to spend in the Californian capital.",
 'The lofty tower of its City Hall overlooked the whole panorama of the streets and avenues, which cut each other at right-angles. Sombreros and red shirts and plumed Indians were rarely to be seen; but there were silk hats and black coats everywhere worn by a multitude of gentlemanly-looking men.',
 'Payment was made only for the ale, porter, or sherry which was drunk. This seemed "very American" to Passepartout. Mr. Fogg and Aouda were abundantly served on diminutive plates by negroes.',
 'Mr. Fogg replied that the honour would be his; and the detective—who was determined not to lose sight of him—begged permission to accompany them in their walk about San Francisco. They soon found themselves in Montgomery Street, where a great crowd was collected. Men were going about carrying large posters, and flags and streamers were floating in the wind.',
 'A large platform had been erected in the open air, towards which the current of the crowd seemed to be directed. The undulations of the human surge reached the steps, while all the heads floundered on the surface like a sea agitated by a squall.',
 '"It is evidently a meeting," said Fix, "and its object must be an exciting one. I should not wonder if it were about the Alabama, despite the fact that that question is settled." "Perhaps," replied Mr. Fogg, simply. "At least, there are two champions in presence of each other, the Honourable Mr. Camerfield and the Honourably Mr. Mandiboy."',
 '"It would be prudent for us to retire," said Fix, who was anxious that Mr. Fogg should not receive any injury. "If there is any question about England in all this, and we were recognised, I fear it would go hard with us," said Fogg.',
 'An enormous bruise immediately made its appearance under the detective\'s silk hat, which was completely smashed in. "Yankee!" exclaimed Mr. Fogg, darting a contemptuous look at the ruffian. "We will meet again!" returned the other.',
 'An hour after, they were once more suitably attired, and with Aouda returned to the International Hotel. Passepartout was waiting for his master, armed with half a dozen six-barrelled revolvers. When he perceived Fix, he knit his brows; but his countenance resumed its placid expression.',
 'The Pacific Railroad is divided into two distinct lines. The Central Pacific runs between San Francisco and Ogden, and the Union Pacific, between Ogden and Omaha. Five main lines connect Omaha with New York.',
 'Between Omaha and the Pacific the railway crosses a territory which is still infested by Indians and wild beasts. The journey from New York to San Francisco consumed, formerly, under the most favourable conditions, at least six months. It is now accomplished in seven days.',
 'On leaving Omaha, it passes along the left bank of the Platte River as far as the junction of its northern branch. Such was the road to be traversed in seven days, which would enable Phileas Fogg—at least, so he hoped—to take the Atlantic steamer at New York on the 11th for Liverpool. The car which he occupied was a sort of long omnibus on eight wheels, and with no compartments in the interior.',
 'It was supplied with saloon cars, balcony cars, restaurants, and smoking-cars; theatre cars alone were wanting, and they will have these some day. Book and news dealers, sellers of edibles, drinkables, and cigars, were continually circulating in the aisles. Passepartout found himself beside the detective; but he did not talk to him.',
 'Snow began to fall an hour after they started, a fine snow, however, which happily could not obstruct the train. The country between San Francisco and Sacramento is not very hilly. The Central Pacific, taking Sacramento for its starting-point, extends eastward to meet the road from Omaha.',
 'The train, on leaving Sacramento, and passing the junction, Roclin, Auburn, and Colfax, entered the range of the Sierra Nevada. The railway track wound in and out among the passes, now approaching the mountain-sides, now suspended over precipices.',
 "There were few or no bridges or tunnels on the route. The railway turned around the sides of the mountains. The train entered the State of Nevada through the Carson Valley about nine o'clock.",
 "About twelve o'clock a troop of ten or twelve thousand head of buffalo encumbered the track. The locomotive, slackening its speed, tried to clear the way with its cow-catcher. The buffaloes marched along with a tranquil gait.",
 'Parbleu! I should like to know if Mr. Fogg foresaw this mishap in his programme! And here\'s an engineer who doesn\'t dare to run the locomotive into this herd of beasts!" The procession of buffaloes lasted three full hours, and it was night before the track was clear.',
 "Passepartout, about nine o'clock, went out upon the platform to take the air. The weather was cold, the heavens grey, but it was not snowing. The sun's disc, enlarged by the mist, seemed an enormous ring of gold.",
 '"I\'ll go," said Passepartout to himself. He knew nothing of Mormonism except the custom of polygamy. The news quickly spread through the train, which contained about one hundred passengers.',
 'Elder Hitch was trying to make proselytes on the very railway trains. Then, emphasising his words with his loud voice and frequent gestures, he related the history of the Mormons from Biblical times. In Israel, a Mormon prophet of the tribe of Joseph published the annals of the new religion.',
 "The Elder's story became somewhat wearisome, and his audience grew gradually less, until it was reduced to twenty passengers. But this did not disconcert the enthusiast, who proceeded with the story of Joseph Smith's bankruptcy in 1837.",
 'Passepartout was now the only person left in the car, and the Elder, looking him full in the face, reminded him that, two years after the assassination of Joseph Smith, the inspired prophet, Brigham Young, his successor, left Nauvoo for the banks of the Great Salt Lake. "And this is why the jealousy of Congress has been aroused against us! Why have the soldiers of the Union invaded the soil of Utah?"',
 '"No!" replied Passepartout courageously, in his turn retiring from the car, and leaving the Elder to preach to vacancy. During the lecture the train had been making good progress, and towards half-past twelve it reached the northwest border of the Great Salt Lake. The Salt Lake, seventy miles long and thirty-five wide, is situated three miles eight hundred feet above the sea.',
 'The country around the lake was well cultivated, for the Mormons are mostly farmers. Fogg and his party had time to pay a visit to Salt Lake City, connected with Ogden by a branch road.',
 "The travellers, then, were promenading, at three o'clock, about the streets of the town built between the banks of the Jordan and the spurs of the Wahsatch Range. They saw few or no churches, but the prophet's mansion, the court-house, and the arsenal.",
 'These poor creatures seemed to be neither well off nor happy. Passepartout could not behold without a certain fright these women, charged, in groups, with conferring happiness on a single Mormon. It seemed to him a terrible thing to have to guide so many wives at once.',
 '"Stop! stop!" were heard. The gentleman who uttered the cries was evidently a belated Mormon. He was breathless with running. Happily for him, the station had neither gates nor barriers.',
 'From this point it took an easterly direction towards the jagged Wahsatch Mountains. It was in the section included between this range and the Rocky Mountains that the American engineers found the most formidable difficulties in laying the road.',
 "At ten o'clock at night the train stopped at Fort Bridger station, and twenty minutes later entered Wyoming Territory. The next day, 7th December, they stopped for a quarter of an hour at Green River station. Snow had fallen abundantly during the night, but, being mixed with rain, it had half melted.",
 'Not wishing to be recognised, the young woman drew back from the window, feeling much alarm at her discovery. She was attached to the man who, however coldly, gave her daily evidences of the most absolute devotion.',
 '"Mr. Fix," resumed Aouda, "Mr. Fogg will allow no one to avenge him. He said that he would come back to America to find this man. Should he perceive Colonel Proctor, we could not prevent a collision which might have terrible results" "You are right, madam," replied Fix; "a meeting between them might ruin all"',
 'Passepartout felt something like a shudder shoot through his frame, but his confidence in his master remained unbroken. "You were in the habit of playing whist," resumed Fix, "on the steamers." "Yes; but it would be difficult to do so here. I have neither cards nor partners."',
 'Passepartout was dispatched in search of the steward, and soon returned with two packs of cards, some pins, counters, and a shelf covered with cloth. The game commenced. Aouda understood whist sufficiently well, and even received some compliments on her playing from Mr. Fogg.',
 'Between this and the railway extended vast plains, plentifully irrigated. The snow had ceased falling, and the air became crisp and cold. Large birds, frightened by the locomotive, rose and flew off in the distance. It was a desert in its vast nakedness.',
 'Passepartout rushed out of the car. Thirty or forty passengers had already descended, amongst them Colonel Stamp Proctor. The bridge at Medicine Bow is shaky, and would not bear the weight of the train.',
 'Passepartout, not daring to apprise his master of what he heard, listened with set teeth. "Hum!" cried Colonel Proctor; "but we are not going to stay here, I imagine, and take root in the snow?" "Colonel," replied the conductor, "we have telegraphed to Omaha for a train, but it is not likely that it will reach Medicine Bow in less than six hours"',
 'There was a general disappointment among the passengers, who, without reckoning the delay, saw themselves compelled to trudge fifteen miles over a plain covered with snow. The engineer, a true Yankee, named Forster called out, "Gentlemen, perhaps there is a way, after all, to get over."',
 'He told stories about engineers leaping their trains over rivers without bridges, by putting on full steam. Many of those present avowed themselves of the engineer\'s mind. "We have fifty chances out of a hundred of getting over," said one. "Eighty! ninety!"',
 '"At full speed, don\'t you see, at full speed!" "I know—I see," repeated Passepartout; "but it would be, if not more prudent, since that word displeases you, at least more natural—" "Who! What! What\'s the matter with this fellow?" cried several. "I will show these people that a Frenchman can be as American as they!"',
 'Then, with another whistle, he began to move forward; the train increased its speed, and soon its rapidity became frightful. They perceived that the whole train, rushing on at the rate of a hundred miles an hour, hardly bore upon the rails at all. And they passed over! It was like a flash. No one saw the bridge.',
 'The travellers had now only to descend to the Atlantic by limitless plains, levelled by nature. A branch of the "grand trunk" led off southward to Denver, the capital of Colorado. The country round about is rich in gold and silver.',
 'Fort McPherson was left behind at eight in the morning. Three hundred and fifty-seven miles had yet to be traversed before reaching Omaha. The road followed the capricious windings of the southern branch of the Platte River.',
 'During the morning, chance distinctly favoured that gentleman. Trumps and honours were showered upon his hands. Once, having resolved on a bold stroke, he was on the point of playing a spade, when a voice behind him said, "I should play a diamond"',
 'Phileas Fogg left the car, and the American followed him upon the platform. "When and where you will," replied the American, "and with whatever weapon you choose" Aouda in vain attempted to retain Mr. Fogg.',
 '"Will you appoint a meeting for six months hence?" "Why not ten years later?" "I say six months," returned Phileas Fogg; "and I shall be at the place of meeting promptly." "All this is an evasion," cried Stamp Proctor. "Now or never!" "Very well," said Mr. Fogg. "I will stop at Plum Creek."',
 'Mr. Fogg, followed by Fix, went out upon the platform. Passepartout accompanied him, carrying a pair of revolvers. Aouda remained in the car, as pale as death. Colonel Proctor appeared on the platform, attended by a Yankee of his own stamp as his second.',
 '"Well, we are really in America," thought Passepartout, "and the conductor is a gentleman of the first order!" The two combatants, their seconds, and the conductor passed through the cars to the rear of the train.',
 'Cries of terror proceeded from the interior of the cars. Colonel Proctor and Mr. Fogg, revolvers in hand, hastily quitted their prison, and rushed forward. They then perceived that the train was attacked by a band of Sioux.',
 'The Indians had first mounted the engine, and half stunned the engineer and stoker with blows from their muskets. Aouda behaved courageously from the first. She defended herself like a true heroine with a revolver.',
 'Several passengers, shot or stunned, lay on the seats. It was necessary to put an end to the struggle, which had lasted for ten minutes. Fort Kearney station, where there was a garrison, was only two miles distant.',
 'There, suspended by one hand between the baggage-car and the tender, with the other he loosened the safety chains. He would never have succeeded in unscrewing the yoking-bar, had not a violent concussion jolted this bar out. The train, now detached from the engine, remained a little behind, whilst the locomotive rushed forward.',
 'There were many wounded, but none mortally. Colonel Proctor was one of the most seriously hurt. Aouda was safe; Phileas Fogg, who had been in the thickest of the fight, had not received a scratch.',
 '"I will find him, living or dead," said he quietly to Aouda. The delay of a single day would make him lose the steamer at New York. But as he thought, "It is my duty," he did not hesitate.',
 '"I don\'t know whether you can, sir; but you ought to do so." "Nobody here has a right to teach me my duty." "Very well," said Mr. Fogg, coldly. "I will go alone." "Would you have me leave this poor fellow to perish?"',
 'Fix gazed attentively at Mr. Fogg, and, despite his suspicions and of the struggle which was going on within him, he lowered his eyes before that calm and frank look. "I will stay," said he. Aouda retired to a waiting-room, and there she waited alone, thinking of the simple and noble generosity.',
 'He began to accuse and abuse himself, and, as if he were director of police, administered to himself a sound lecture for his greenness. He did not know what to do. Sometimes he was tempted to tell Aouda all; but he could not doubt how the young woman would receive his confidences.',
 'A great shadow, preceded by a wild light, slowly advanced, appearing still larger through the mist. The mystery was soon explained. The locomotive, which was slowly approaching with deafening whistles, was that which, having been detached from the train, had continued its route with such terrific rapidity, carrying off the unconscious engineer and stoker.',
 'He did not hesitate what to do. It would be prudent to continue on to Omaha, for it would be dangerous to return to the train. Nevertheless, he began to rebuild the fire in the furnace. The pressure again mounted, and the locomotive returned.',
 '"I will not go," said Aouda. Fix had heard this conversation. A little while before, when there was no prospect of proceeding on the journey, he had made up his mind to leave Fort Kearney. The station platform burned his feet, and he could not stir.',
 'Aouda kept coming out of the waiting-room, going to the end of the platform, and peering through the tempest of snow, as if to pierce the mist which narrowed the horizon around her, and to hear, if possible, some welcome sound. She heard and saw nothing.',
 "Phileas Fogg and the squad had gone southward; in the south all was still vacancy. It was then seven o'clock. The captain, who was really alarmed, did not know what course to take.",
 'They had met and fought the Indians ten miles south of Fort Kearney. Shortly before the detachment arrived, Passepartout and his companions had begun to struggle with their captors. All were welcomed with joyful cries.',
 '"Not till this evening." "Ah!" returned the impassible gentleman quietly. "Is it absolutely necessary that you should be in New York on the 11th, before nine o\'clock in the evening, the time that the steamer leaves for Liverpool?" "It is absolutely necessary." "Good! you are therefore twenty hours behind. Twelve from twenty leaves eight. You must regain eight hours"',
 '"No; on a sledge with sails," replied Fix. "A man has proposed such a method to me." It was the man who had spoken to Fix during the night, and whose offer he had refused.',
 'Mr. Fogg readily made a bargain with the owner of this land-craft. The wind was favourable, being fresh, and blowing from the west. The snow had hardened, and Mudge was very confident of being able to transport him in a few hours.',
 "The sledge was ready to start at eight o'clock. The distance between Fort Kearney and Omaha, as the birds fly, is at most two hundred miles. If the wind held good, the distance might be traversed in five hours. If no accident happened the sledge might reach Omaha by one o' clock. What a journey!",
 'The sledge sped on as lightly as a boat over the waves. The prairie, across which the sledge was moving in a straight line, was as flat as a sea. It seemed like a vast frozen lake. "If nothing breaks," said Mudge, "we shall get there!"',
 'It followed throughout the right bank of the Platte River. The sledge, shortening this route, took a chord of the arc described by the railway. Aouda, cosily packed in furs and cloaks, was sheltered as much as possible.',
 'Passepartout felt a strong desire to grasp his ally, Fix, by the hand. He remembered that it was the detective who procured the sledge, the only means of reaching Omaha in time.',
 'Neither village, station, nor fort appeared. Sometimes flocks of wild birds rose, or bands of gaunt, famished, ferocious prairie-wolves ran howling after the sledge. Passepartout, revolver in hand, held himself ready to fire on those which came too near.',
 'Passepartout and Fix jumped off, stretched their stiffened limbs, and aided Mr. Fogg and the young woman to descend from the sledge. The party directed their steps to the Omaha railway station. Omaha is connected with Chicago by the Chicago and Rock Island Railroad, which runs directly east, and passes fifty stations.',
 "The next day, which was the 10th, at four o'clock in the evening, it reached Chicago, already risen from its ruins, and more proudly seated than ever on the borders of its beautiful Lake Michigan. Nine hundred miles separated Chicago from New York; but trains are not wanting at Chicago.",
 'None of the other steamers were able to serve his projects. Passepartout was crushed; it overwhelmed him to lose the boat by three-quarters of an hour. It was his fault, for, instead of helping his master, he had not ceased putting obstacles in his path!',
 'Mr. Fogg left the hotel alone, after giving Passepartout instructions to await his return. If Phileas Fogg had left in the China, one of the fastest steamers on the Atlantic, he would have reached Liverpool, and then London, within the period agreed upon.',
 'Several had departure signals, and were preparing to put to sea at morning tide. Phileas Fogg hailed a boat, got into it, and soon found himself on board the Henrietta. He ascended to the deck, and asked for the captain, who forthwith presented himself.',
 '"In an hour." "You are bound for—" "Bordeaux." "And your cargo?" "No freight. Going in ballast." "Have you any passengers?" " no passengers. Never have passengers. Too much in the way." "Is your vessel a swift one?" "Between eleven and twelve knots. The Henrietta, well known." "Will you carry me and three other persons to Liverpool?" "To Liverpool? Why not to China?" "I said Liverpool',
 'Phileas Fogg offered the captain two thousand dollars to take him to Bordeaux. Captain Speedy said he would take him, but only if he paid him two hundred dollars. Mr. Fogg said he was willing to pay two thousand.',
 'which extended throughout his vocal gamut. Fix, he said to himself that the Bank of England would certainly not come out of this affair well indemnified. When they reached England, even if Mr. Fogg did not throw some handfuls of bank-bills into the sea, more than seven thousand pounds would have been spent!',
 'Then Phileas Fogg had taken passage for Bordeaux, and, during the thirty hours he had been on board, had so shrewdly managed with his banknotes that the sailors and stokers, who were only an occasional crew, and were not on the best terms with the captain, went over to him in a body. This was why Phile as Fogg was in command instead of Captain Speedy; why the captain was a prisoner in his cabin; and',
 'It is true that, once arrived, the affair on board the Henrietta, added to that of the Bank of England, might create more difficulties for Mr. Fogg than he imagined or could desire. During the first days, they went along smoothly enough. The sea was not very unpropitious, the wind seemed stationary in the north-east, and the sails were hoisted.',
 'Fix, it must be confessed, understood nothing of what was going on. The conquest of the Henrietta, the bribery of the crew, Fogg managing the boat like a skilled seaman, amazed and confused him. For, after all, a man who began by stealing fifty-five thousand pounds might end by stealing a vessel.',
 "Ever since the evening before the barometer, suddenly falling, had indicated an approaching change in the atmosphere. Mr. Fogg, in order not to deviate from his course, furled his sails and increased the force of the steam. But the vessel's speed slackened, owing to the state of the sea, the long waves of which broke against the stern.",
 'Sometimes the screw rose out of the water, beating its protruding end, when a mountain of water raised the stern above the waves. The wind, however, did not grow as boisterous as might have been feared. It continued fresh, but, unhappily, it remained obstinately in the south-east.',
 'Passepartout understood it all; he was seized with mortal anxiety. "Ah, if my master can get over that," muttered he, "he\'ll be a famous man!" He could not help imparting to Fix what he had overheard.',
 'On the 18th, the engineer, as he had predicted, announced that the coal would give out in the course of the day. "Do not let the fires go down," replied Mr. Fogg. "Keep them up to the last. Let the valves be filled." Towards noon Phileas Fogg called Passepartout, and ordered him to go for Captain Speedy.',
 'Captain Speedy asked Phileas Fogg to sell him his vessel, the Henrietta. Mr. Fogg said he would be obliged to burn the vessel. The Henrietta was twenty years old and worth sixty thousand dollars.',
 'Mr. Fogg had taken away the match. Andrew Speedy, seizing the banknotes, counted them and consigned them to his pocket. "And I shall still have the iron hull," said the captain in a softer tone. "The iron hull and the engine is it agreed?" "Agreed."',
 '"Captain Fogg, you\'ve got something of the Yankee about you," he said. "Certainly, from the keel to the truck of the masts—all the wood, that is." "Very well. Have the interior seats, bunks, and frames pulled down, and burn them."',
 'Phileas Fogg was trying to gain twelve hours on the Atlantic steamers. The steam was about to give out altogether. Captain Speedy said: "I really commiserate you. Everything is against you"',
 'The Henrietta entered Queenstown Harbour at one o\'clock in the morning, it then being high tide. Phileas Fogg, after being grasped heartily by the hand by Captain Speedy, left that gentleman on the levelled hulk of his craft. Fix was greatly tempted to arrest Mr. Fogg on the spot; but he did not. Why? What struggle was going on within him? Had he changed his mind about "his man"? Did he understand that',
 '"I am." "I arrest you in the Queen\'s name!" Phileas Fogg was in prison. He had been shut up in the Custom House, and he was to be transferred to London.',
 'Passepartout wept till he was blind, and felt like blowing his brains out. Aouda and he had remained, despite the cold, under the portico of the Custom House. Neither wished to leave the place; both were anxious to see Mr. Fogg again.',
 'No one could tell. Did escape occur to him? Did he think of escaping from it? Possibly; for once he walked slowly around the room. But the door was locked, and the window heavily barred with iron rods. He sat down again, and drew his journal from his pocket.',
 'Two hours! Admitting that he was at this moment taking an express train, he could reach London and the Reform Club by a quarter before nine, p.m. At thirty-three minutes past two he heard a singular noise outside, then a hasty opening of doors. Phileas Fogg was free! He walked to the detective, looked him steadily in the face, and with the only rapid motion he had ever made in his life, or which he ever would make',
 'Phileas Fogg, Aouda, and Passepartout left the Custom House without delay, got into a cab, and in a few moments descended at the station. Mr. Fogg asked if there was an express train about to leave for London. The express train had left thirty-five minutes before.',
 'Mr. Fogg gave Passepartout instructions to purchase some provisions, and quietly went to his domicile. The dwellers in Saville Row would have been surprised the next day if they had been told that Phileas Fogg had returned home.',
 "Mr. Fogg's course, however, was fully decided upon; he knew what remained for him to do. A room in the house in Saville Row was set apart for Aouda, who was overwhelmed with grief at her protector's misfortune.",
 'Passepartout, having received his orders, had nothing to do but obey them. He looked at his imperturbable master, and could scarcely bring his mind to leave him. His heart was full, and his conscience tortured by remorse. He accused himself more bitterly than ever of being the cause of the irretrievable disaster.',
 'I have no influence over my master; but you, perhaps—" "What influence could I have?" replied Aouda. "Mr. Fogg is influenced by no one. Has he ever understood that my gratitude to him is overflowing?"',
 "Mr. Fogg, therefore, had no reason for going out, and so he remained at home. He shut himself up in his room, and busied himself putting his affairs in order. He listened at his master's door, and looked through the keyhole.",
 'Phileas Fogg returned to Aouda. He sat down near the fireplace, opposite her. No emotion was visible on his face. "Madam," he said, "will you pardon me for bringing you to England?"',
 '"So, Mr. Fogg," resumed Aouda, "not content with rescuing me from a terrible death, you thought yourself bound to secure my comfort in a foreign land?" "Yes, madam," replied the gentleman, coldly, "I have need of nothing." "But how do you look upon the fate, sir, which awaits you?" "As I am in the habit of doing."',
 'Aouda looked into his face. The sincerity, rectitude, firmness, and sweetness of this soft glance of a noble woman, who could dare all to save him to whom she owed all, at first astonished, then penetrated him. He shut his eyes for an instant, as if to avoid her look. When he opened them again, "I love you!" he said, simply. "Yes, by all that is holiest, I love you, and I am entirely',
 'The real bankrobber, a certain James Strand, had been arrested, on the 17th day of December, at Edinburgh. Three days before, Phileas Fogg had been a criminal, who was being desperately followed up by the police; now he was an honourable gentleman.',
 'Telegrams were sent to America and Asia for news of Phileas Fogg. The police were ignorant what had become of the detective, Fix. Bets increased, nevertheless, in number and value.',
 'The five antagonists of Phileas Fogg had met in the great saloon of the club. The police had great difficulty in keeping back the crowd.',
 '"We can, therefore, regard the bet as won," said Samuel Fallentin. "He has lost, gentleman," said Andrew Stuart, "he has a hundred times lost!" "Mr. Fogg\'s project was absurdly foolish," said Thomas Flanagan.',
 '"I wouldn\'t give up my four thousand of the bet," said Andrew Stuart, as he took his seat, "for three thousand nine hundred and ninety-nine" The clock indicated eighteen minutes to nine. The players took up their cards, but could not keep their eyes off the clock.',
 'One minute more, and the wager would be won. Andrew Stuart and his partners suspended their game. They left their cards, and counted the seconds. At the fifty-fifth, a loud cry was heard in the street, followed by applause.',
 "Passepartout had been sent by his master to engage the services of the Reverend Samuel Wilson in a certain marriage ceremony, which was to take place the next day. He soon reached the clergyman's house, but found him not at home. Passepartout waited a good twenty minutes, and when he left the reverend gentleman, it was thirty-five minutes past eight.",
 '"No—to-day is Saturday." "Saturday? Impossible!" "You have made a mistake of one day! We arrived twenty-four hours ahead of time; but there are only ten minutes left!"',
 'Phileas Fogg had, without suspecting it, gained one day on his journey, and this merely because he had travelled constantly eastward. He would, on the contrary, have lost a day had he gone in the opposite direction, that is, westward.',
 'Phileas Fogg, then, had won the twenty thousand pounds. As he had spent nearly nineteen thousand on the way, the pecuniary gain was small. His object was, however, to be victorious, and not to win money. He divided the one thousand pounds that remained between Passepartout and the unfortunate Fix.',
 'Phileas Fogg had won his wager, and had made his journey around the world in eighty days. To do this he had employed every means of conveyance. The eccentric gentleman had throughout displayed all his marvellous qualities of coolness and exactitude.',
 "End of Project Gutenberg's Around the World in 80 Days, by Jules Verne. No one owns a United States copyright in these works. The Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission and without paying copyright royalties.",
 'If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.',
 'If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms.',
 'Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States. We do not claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work.',
 'The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work. If you are outside the United States, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing.',
 'You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org 1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees or charges.',
 'Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm License terms from this work. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic work. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form.',
 'Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or distributing any Projectutenberg-tm works. You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from the use of the works.',
 '- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium. - You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Projectutenberg-tm works. 1.E.9.',
 'Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread public domain works. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works may contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data.',
 'If you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it. The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. You must return the medium with your written explanation.',
 "If the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' with no other warranties.",
 "Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers. It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-TM's goals.",
 "The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.",
 'Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS. The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states. We do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.',
 'Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation methods. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To donate, please visit: https://pglaf.org/donate']
using pretrained models/pipeline for auto-text summerization